Slightly rewording the documentation of Theorem, Definition and Fixpoint (#19766)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/language/core/definitions.rst

Definitions and theorems
========================

A definition can be seen as a way to give a meaning to a name or as a
way to abbreviate a term of some type. The name can later
be replaced at any time by its definition.

On its side, a theorem is a statement with a proof. One can view
the name of a theorem as a way to abbreviate the given proof, in the
same way as the name of a definition abbreviates a term. That is, in
the case of definitions (and related forms such as :cmd:`Fixpoint` or
:cmd:`CoFixpoint`), the term is the body of the definition and the
type is the type of the body. In the case of a theorem, lemma,

> corollary, etc. the term is the proof and the type is the statement.

Reviewer: > What do you mean by "References to the theorem may use its term or type, depending on the context."? Otherwise ok.

What I meant was if you `apply` the theorem, the type of the theorem is used.  `Print theorem` will show both.  Maybe my thinking is still fuzzy, feel free to drop the sentence.

> I think it is also worth to insist somewhere that Definition and Theorem are just two different views at the same kind of syntactic object.

Yes, a good point.  I tend to forget the case where the user has to provide a proof for the Definition.

> corollary, etc. the term is the proof and the type is the statement.

Reviewer: I hope you'll at least use the first three sentences I suggest here.  IMO short and sweet.

> corollary, etc. the term is the proof and the type is the statement.

Author: > What I meant was if you `apply` the theorem, the type of the theorem is used.

The proof also is also used, in some sense. If your theorem is, say, `{x : nat & x > 1}` and you use this statement to eventually compute an actual `nat` bigger than 1, this `nat` is found in the proof that you applied (and it can be 2, or 3, etc. depending on the proof you give).

> Maybe my thinking is still fuzzy, feel free to drop the sentence.

I would say that it is the standard usage which is ambiguous. Syntactically, there is no difference between a proof of some statement and a term of some type, that is when you apply a theorem, what you syntactically do is to apply the proof. However, in the case of a pair proof/statement, the focus is on the statement and we usually intend that the exact proof does not matter (and thus use `Qed` to enforce that), while in the case of a pair term/type, the focus is on the term and the type is intended to be an auxiliary re-derivable information. (Don't know if this explanaton helps.)

> corollary, etc. the term is the proof and the type is the statement.

Reviewer: > Syntactically, there is no difference between a proof of some statement and a term of some type, that is when you apply a theorem, what you syntactically do is to apply the proof.

When you apply a theorem, the theorem name is inserted into the proof term of Show Proof.  I expect Qed doesn't later recheck the referenced theorem--right?

Definitions and theorems
========================

> 
> Definitions associate a specified term with a given name. The name can later
> be replaced with its definition through :term:`δ-reduction <delta-reduction>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Definitions and theorems are used to define terms that have a specific type.

Definitions most commonly associate a specified term with a given name.
Alternatively, the type may be specified instead of the term, in which case, a proof
must be provided to derive the term just as for theorems. The name can later
be replaced with its definition through :term:`δ-reduction <delta-reduction>`.
```

The first sentence suggests they are similar.  Details of their differences should go later
where `Definition` syntax is given (e.g. opacity and that specifying both term and type
will verify that they match).  N'est-ce pas?

      | {* @binder } : @type
      reduce ::= Eval @red_expr in

>    In its most basic form :g:`Definition @ident := term`, the command
>    binds :n:`@term` to the name :n:`@ident` in the global environment,
>    provided that :n:`@term` is well-typed.
> 
>    The form :n:`Definition @ident : @type := @term` checks that the type of :n:`@term`
>    is definitionally equal to :n:`@type`, and registers :n:`@ident` as being of type
>    :n:`@type`, and bound to value :n:`@term`.
> 
>    The form :n:`Definition @ident {* @binder } : @type := @term` is equivalent to
>    :n:`Definition @ident : forall {* @binder }, @type := fun {* @binder } => @term`
>    (and similarly when one of `@term` or `@type` is omitted).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The command
   binds :n:`@term` to the name :n:`@ident` in the global environment,
   provided that :n:`@term` is well-typed.

   If :n:`@type` is specified, the command checks that the type of :n:`@term`
   is definitionally equal to :n:`@type`.

   If @binder is specified, the definition is equivalent to
   :n:`Definition @ident : forall {* @binder }, @type := fun {* @binder } => @term`
   (and similarly when one of `@term` or `@type` is omitted).

```
We prefer describing the behavior of each bit of the syntax separately rather than listing multiple similar forms.  It's easier for readers, who don't have to read a lot of very similar text and mentally do a diff to figure out what each bit of the syntax does.

"and registers :n:`@ident` as being of type :n:`@type`, and bound to value :n:`@term`" -- what is this registration?  Seems like implementation detail that the user probably doesn't need to know about.

   If :n:`@reduce` is present then :n:`@ident` is bound to the result of the specified
   computation on :n:`@term`.

   If :n:`@term` is omitted, :n:`@type` is required and Rocq enters proof mode.
   This can be used to define a term incrementally, in particular by relying on the :tacn:`refine` tactic.
   In this case, the proof should normally be terminated with :cmd:`Defined`. See :ref:`proof-editing-mode`.

>    The command supports the :attr:`local`, :attr:`universes(polymorphic)`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   These commands support the :attr:`local`, :attr:`universes(polymorphic)`,
```

By convention, we consider Definition and Example as separate commands.

      | {* @binder } : @type
      reduce ::= Eval @red_expr in

>    This binds :n:`@term` to the name :n:`@ident` in the global environment,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Binds :n:`@term` to the name :n:`@ident` in the global environment,
```

   provided that :n:`@term` is well-typed.

   If :n:`@type` is specified, the command checks that the type of :n:`@term`
   is definitionally equal to :n:`@type`.

>    If :n:`@binder` is specified, it distributes over :n:`@term` and :n:`@type` as if they had
>    respectively been :n:`fun {* @binder } => @term` and :n:`forall {* @binder }, @type`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If :n:`@binder` is specified, :n:`@term` and :n:`@type` are treated as if they had
   respectively been given as :n:`fun {* @binder } => @term` and :n:`forall {* @binder }, @type`.
```

"distributes" suggest to me a reference to a distributive property, which IINM is not the case--it just has it's everyday meaning.

.. _Assertions:

Theorems and proofs
-------------------

> An assertion states a proposition (or a type) for which the proof (or an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assertions, such as :cmd:`Theorem`s, state a proposition (or a type) for which the proof (or an
```

      | Property

   After the statement is asserted, Rocq needs a proof. Once a proof of
   :n:`@type` is given,
   the theorem is bound to the name :n:`@ident` in the global environment.

>    If :n:`@binder` is specified, this behaves as if :n:`@type` had been
>    :n:`forall {* @binder }, @type` and the proof starts in the context :n:`{* @binder }`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If :n:`@binder` is specified, :n:`@type` is treated as if it had been given as
   :n:`forall {* @binder }, @type` and the proof starts in the context :n:`{* @binder }`.
```

"behaves" is vague; better just to state the behavior

      | Proposition
      | Property

   In its most basic form :g:`@thm_token @ident : @type`, the command
   interprets :n:`@type` as a statement and waits for a
   proof. Once a proof is given and validated, a theorem bound to
   :n:`@ident` and stating :n:`@type` is added to the global
   environment.

   The form :n:`@thm_token @ident {* @binder } : @type := @term` is
   equivalent to :n:`@thm_token @ident : forall {* @binder }, @type`
   and the proof starts in the context :n:`{* @binder }`.

   Forms using the :n:`with` clause are useful for theorems that are proved by simultaneous induction
   over a mutually inductive assumption, or that assert mutually dependent coinductive

>    statements. It is equivalent to

Reviewer: As in the description of Definition, can we describe each syntactic item separately rather than listing multiple similar forms?

   :cmd:`Fixpoint` or :cmd:`CoFixpoint` but using tactics to build the proof of
   the statements (or the :term:`body` of the specification, depending on the point of
   view). The inductive or coinductive types on which the induction or

>    coinduction has to be done is guessed by the system.

Reviewer: -> The command guesses the inductive or coinductive types on which the induction or
   coinduction has to be done.

Clearer without the passive voice

   correct at some time of the interactive development of a proof, use the
   command :cmd:`Guarded`.

>    The command supports the :attr:`local`, :attr:`universes(polymorphic)`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   These commands support the :attr:`local`, :attr:`universes(polymorphic)`,
```

commands to manage the proof mode (see :ref:`proofhandling`).

When the proof is complete, use the :cmd:`Qed` command so the kernel verifies
the proof and adds it to the global environment. By default, proofs

> that end with :cmd:`Qed` are opaque, that is that their content cannot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that end with :cmd:`Qed` are :term:`opaque`, that is that their content cannot
```

BTW, I'm preparing a PR that will distinguish in the doc between permanently opaque (Qed) and changeably opaque.  It will be attached to the Opaque command and "opaque" will be defined there.
